---
id: version-v1.7.0-i18n
title: i18n and RTL
original_id: i18n
---
    
Internationalization and Right-to-left support. i18n methods are used to update the client label values for any content from source documents in the `Translations` collection.

## Client

Every label, alert, input, and placeholder in Reaction can be translated using the Reaction i18n implementation.

We are using the <http://i18next.com/> internationalization tooling.  We've implemented Reaction specific helpers that load and attach i18n keys and labels to many components.

### i18n

- usage - data attribute: `<td data-i18n='cartSubTotals.items'>`
- usage - template helper: `{{i18n 'cartDrawer.empty' 'Your cart is empty.'}}`
- usage - reference:  `<thead data-i18n>cartSubTotals.head</thead>`
- usage - implied tag: `<td data-i18n>Item Count</td>`
- usage - alerts `Alerts.add "Message!", "danger", i18nKey: "productDetail.outOfStock"`
- usage - js `i18next.t(gridPackage.pkgDisabled)`

Make sure keys are in camelCase, so no spaces, no periods.

The fallback language is EN, so all new translations should go in `private/data/i18n/en.json`, and will fallback to English for other language files if they are missing entries.

### Recommended implementation

```html
<thead data-i18n='cartSubTotals.head'>Your cart</thead>
```

This will first use "Your cart", then will fetch translations from the `Translations` collection. e.g for English, we will look in `en` for a matching document, first in package namespaces, fallback to core, and if necessary fall back to values from the template source.

```js
{
  "cartSubTotals": {
    "head": "Your cart"
  }
}
```

If there is no entry in English dictionary, we'll just use the text value from the template.

### RTL - Right to Left

Support for Right to Left languages.  See [appearance.md](appearance.md)

The `rtl` class is added when the shops.languages language direction is 'rtl'.  Some rtl helpers are imported that should be used instead of the equivalent _non-rtl_ standards.

- .rtl
- .ltr
- .left
- .right
- .margin-left
- .margin-right
- .padding-left
- .padding-right
- .float
- .text-align

See `imports/themes/default/styles/default/mixins/rtl.less` for the complete `.rtl` mixins that you should use instead of standard css properties when editing LESS themes.

## Server

Source can come from files in the `private/data/i18n` folder, but can also loaded from
imports or another direct [valid source](http://i18next.com/docs/jsons/) in any package.

Import the `loadTranslation` or `loadTranslations` method from
\`server/startup/i18n

```js
import { loadTranslations } from "/server/startup/i18n";
import en from "./en.json";
loadTranslations([en]);
```

## Packages

Packages are transformed in the publication on the server and the appropriate i18n keys are attached by `translateRegistry` to all published Reaction registry documents.

`server/publications/collections/packages.js`

```js
registry.i18nKeyLabel = `${i18nKey}Label`;
registry.i18nKeyDescription = `${i18nKey}Description`;
registry.i18nKeyPlaceholder = `${i18nKey}Placeholder`;
registry.i18nKeyTooltip = `${i18nKey}Tooltip`;
registry.i18nKeyTitle = `${i18nKey}Title`;
```

### Flush

Translation updates are not reactive, and changes made to Assets will no reload unless existing translations are flushed. Restarting will do this, but you can also using this helper with a restart.

From browser console, when logged in as administrator you can use:

```js
Meteor.call("i18n/flushTranslations");
```

Alternately, you can delete the Translations collection and restart Meteor.
